1. 
Hua Wang PhD 王华

Chair, National Board of Directors

Dr. Hua Wang’s professional experience has spanned academia, government and industry. He is currently a faculty member and an administrator at Boston University. He was a research scientist with United Technologies Research Center, a faculty member with Duke University, and a program manager with the U.S. Army Research Office. He was a recipient of various professional awards, an author of numerous technical publications and has served on many editorial and conference boards.

He has been active in serving the community – local and beyond. He is the President of the Chinese American Association of Lexington (CAAL) and serves on the boards of Lexington Historical Society and Cary Memorial Library Foundation. He was a founding board member of the Community Endowment of Lexington (CEL) and served in the past two superintendent search committees. Beyond Lexington, he serves on the national board of UCA and as Treasury of UCA-MA. He is also the founding Co-chair of New England Chinese American Alliance (NECAA).

2. 
Haipei Shue 薛海培

President, Board member

Haipei Shue(薛海培) is the president of United Chinese Americans (UCA), the largest Chinese American coalition in U.S. 

Haipei Shue came to University of Wisconsin-Madison for a graduate study of sociology in 1987. In early 90’s he was one of the “student lobbyists” responsible for the passage of “Chinese Student Protection Bill”; from 2009 to 2013, he is instrumental in the passage of Congressional apology resolutions for “Chinese Exclusion Act”. He worked for 4 years as Phoenix TV international affairs commentator. 

In December 2023, he successfully worked to secure the White House Resolution on 80th Anniversary of the Repealing of Chinese Exclusion Act, on behalf of UCA and Chinese American community.

3.
Jinliang Cai 蔡金良

Board Member

Jinliang Cai was born in Beijing, China. He came to the USA as a student  in 1986 and has lived in Pittsburgh and Memphis. He has been actively engaged in community organizations for many years including Organization of Chinese Americans Pittsburgh Chapter, Greater Memphis United Chinese Association, Memphis Chinese Language School, Memphis In May Festival, Chinese Historical Society in Memphis, Tennessee Chinese  American Alliance, and United Chinese Americans.

4.
Jing (Gene) Chang 常劲

Board Member, Chair of Board Fundraising Committee

Jing (Gene) Chang 常劲 was born in China. He went to Peking University in 1986.  In 1990, he came to the United States to study. In 1993, he got his BS degree in Physics from University of San Francisco.  In 1996, he got his MBA degree from Columbia Graduate School of Business. Gene is currently a Managing Director/COO of Himalaya Capital, a multi-billion-dollar value investing firm based in Seattle. He is an Honorary Chairman of Chinese CEO Organization. He serves on the board of Seattle Public Library Foundation and Peking University Alumni Association (Global).

Gene Chang is a large board member and currently serves as the Chair of UCA Board Fundraising Committee.

5.
Lily Chen 陈健

Senior Advisor of Executive Team, Director of WAVES program

Jian (Lily) Chen is a nationally Certified Nurse Educator, passionate community organizer, mental health advocate, and mental health disparity researcher. She started her community work in the Chicago Chinese Community more than a decade ago, promoting public health especially in the underserved communities. She successfully coordinated multiple national and local programs including the UCA Youth Mental Health Collaborative WAVES (Wellness, Advocacy, Voices, Education, Support) since 2016 to promote Mental Health in AAPI communities. She served on steering committees of the 2016, 2018, and 2022 National Chinese American Conventions in her capacity as the former Executive Director of UCA, founding President of UCA Illinois Chapter, and Convention Director. She is a Robert Woods Johnson Foundation (RWJF) Clinical Scholar fellow, Project Director for Mental Health First Aid Training in Chinese Americans (MHFA – CA) funded by Service Administration of Mental Health and Substance Abuse(SAMHSA), US Department of Health and Human Services. She currently teaches at North Carolina Central University Department of Nursing, directs the UCA WAVES program, and is a PhD student in Nursing at University of North Carolina Chapel Hill. She also serves as the Vice Chair of the Senior Advisory Board for the town of Cary, and as a member of the Health and Human Service Board of Wake County, North Carolina. She is married with five wonderful adult children and a beautiful granddaughter.

6.
Vicki Cheng

Executive Team Member

Working as an IT professional for 20+ years in several American companies, including John Deere, United Chamber and Ty. Inc, Vicki has built a strong sense of responsibility and broad knowledge and experiences in both technical and managing areas.

With love of books and writing, Vicki involves several writing projects in the spare time and has published 17 books in China (including an essay collection, 14 Children stories and biography story book etc). Her current writing project is Chinese Guided Reading Series “It’s My Book” as a chief editor and key writer. The series is sold in USA and western countries for western school kids to learn Chinese, total 13 levels and 400 books; Working with well-known American psychiatrist Mr. Zhang Daolong, she once hosted the TV show series related the mental health topics.

Vicki Cheng’s commitment to the principle of “Humanity First” is evident through her significant contributions over the past two decades. As an executive community member of UCA, she will continue to put her effort into Chinese American communities.

7.
Hardy Li 黎观城

Board Member

Hardy Li is the Chairman of CONPAC Group, an engineering, architectural, real estate development, farming, and manufacturing conglomerate based in the US PNW.  Formerly working for two of the leading international engineering firms, Hardy managed over 50 major public infrastructure projects including 16 light rail and streetcar projects throughout the States and Central America.

Hardy has involved in community services for over 2 decades.  He is the founding member of UCA, currently Chairman of the Board of UCA Washington.  He served as 2 term presidents of the Chinese Friendship Association of Portland; is Chairman of the Portland Chinese (Golf) Open.  

8.
Ray Liang 梁瑞凤

Executive Director

Dr. Ray Liang (梁瑞凤) is the managing director of an NSF-sponsored composites research center at West Virginia University. A graduate of Tsinghua University, he received his PhD degree from the Chinese Academy of Sciences Institute of Chemistry and worked there as a professor prior to moving to the United States. Dr. Liang attended the Inaugural UCA Convention 2016, co-organized the 2nd Convention 2018 and attended the 3rd Convention 2022. He was one of the key founding board members of UCA, who established UCA Finance and served as treasurer since its incorporation and till Dec 2021.

9.
Laura Liu

Executive Team Member

Laura Liu is a community volunteer and advocate for education equity and AAPI representation. Her work at UCA focuses on education, youth programs and mental health. She currently leads communications and outreach for UCA WAVES, our AAPI Youth Mental Health Collaborative. In her local community, she serves as Board President of the Scarsdale Public Library in NY State, and also serves on several school committees to promote multiculturalism, diversity and inclusion. Laura was formerly President of Parents and Children Education Club (PCE Club), an organization serving thousands of Chinese American families on holistic education, positive identity development and mental health. She holds a Bachelor’s degree from Peking University and an MBA from Cornell University. She lives in Westchester County, NY with her husband and three teenage sons.

10.
Shirley Ma 马晓红

Executive team member, Chair of members and Donors committee

Shirley Ma 马晓红 born in Shenyang Liaoning, China. She moved to the USA in 1995.  She has demonstrated herself as a dedicated community volunteer and leader.  Shirley joined the UCA national board in 2017 and has been an active and dedicated founding member of this organization. She has been serving as the Secretary of the Board and leading the committee of UCA Donors and Members Services.  She has been the key member supporting UCA national operations and programs, UCA conventions and local outreaching activities, UCA donor database management and donor following up services. She now is a senior scientist working in the area of drug development for cancer immune-therapy in the SF Bay Area after her Master’s degree study in SFSU in 2000. Shirley received her medical education in China Medical University in 1991. 

Shirley Ma is an at large UCA board member and also serves as the Chair of Members and Donors Services Committee at the Executive Team. 

11.
Steven Pei 白先慎

Board Member, Chair of Governance Committee

Steven Pei is an Electrical Engineering Professor, the Executive Director of the Southwest Public Safety Technology Center founded by the Congress and a member of the faculty senate at the University of Houston. He was born in Guilin and grew up in Taiwan. Prior to joining academia, he was a department head at AT&T Bell Laboratories, Murray Hill, NJ. In Houston, he co-founded the first Asian American PAC in Texas in 2000 and served as its president. He was also a member of the founding boards of several APA and environmental organizations including the founding chair of United Chinese Americans.

12.
Hong Qi 齐虹

Staff member, Operations Director

Hong Qi 齐虹 was an assistant professor at Beijing Language University. In 1988 she came to the US to continue her education. In 1992 Hong Qi started working for the Washington State government, managing the statewide language testing and certification program. In 2006 Hong moved to the Seattle area and started working for King County Elections as a program coordinator. For many years, Hong has served as a leader of many nonprofit organizations in Washington State, including the president of Seattle-Chongqing Sister City Association. Currently, Hong is the program director of UCA, focusing on developing and managing UCA youth programs and training programs, and the secretary of United Chinese Americans of Washington.

Hong Qi  is a staff  member at UCA Executive Team, she serves as the Operations Director of UCA.

13.
Yinong Shen 沈一农

UCA Treasure, Chair of Finance Committee, Vice Chair of Governance Committee

Yinong Shen 沈一农 is a technical expert in a US automobile manufacturer. Yinong has acted in various capacities in community organizations. Yinong Shen served as a board member of a local Chinese school for a long time, and many years as its chairman. The school was served by many volunteers that ran a clean and efficient operation that served the community well. He was elected to the board of the Chinese Association of Greater Detroit where He worked in various special events, by-laws, non-profit filing, business development, etc. He has served as a UCA board member, in the election subcommittee, governance committee, bylaw working group, etc. 

Yinong Shen is an at large UCA board member, UCA Treasurer& Chair of Finance Committee and Vice Chair of UCA Governance Committee.

14.
Jan (Jian) Xie 解健

Secretary of Board, Executive team member

Jan (Jian) Xie (解健) is an educator, photographer, and community leader dedicated to promoting Asian culture, education, and unity. She is the Founder and President of the Asian Culture and Education Society USA (ACAESUSA) and Treasurer of the Asian American Unity Coalition (AAUC). Jan serves on multiple nonprofit boards, including SafeHorns, the Gendercide Awareness Project, Destination Imagination Dallas Region, and the ACP Foundation. Her leadership and volunteer work focus on empowering youth, fostering cultural understanding, and supporting diverse communities across the U.S.

Jan Xie is an At-Large Board Member, Secretary, and Executive Team Member of United Chinese Americans (UCA).

15.
Gary Yu 俞国梁

Executive team member, Chair of Communication Committee

President of the Massachusetts Chapter of the United Chinese American(UCA)
Chair of New England Chinese American Alliance (NECAA)
President of the Boston Chapter of the Asian Pacific Islander American Public Affairs Association (APAPA)
Founder and CEO of Boston International Media Consulting and Boston Asian Radio & TV.